# InvestmentBlock

`InvestmentBlock` is designed to model the investment in different assets
defined in `UCBlock`, like generating units and transmission lines.

The `InvestmentBlock` class, which derives from `Block`, has a vector of
`ColVariable`, each of which represents the investment in a particular asset.
The number of `ColVariable `is thus the number of assets that are subject to
investment. The `Objective` of the `InvestmentBlock` is an `FRealObjective`
whose `Function` is a `InvestmentFunction`. The active `Variable` of this
`InvestmentFunction` are the ones defined in this `InvestmentBlock`.

The `InvestmentBlock` can have explicit `BoxConstraint` on the `ColVariable`,
and "implicit" linear constraints can be generated by the `InvestmentFunction`
itself (as "vertical linearizations").

An `InvestmentFunction` is a `C05Function` that is capable of evaluating the
investment on a set of assets. `InvestmentFunction` derives from *both*
`C05Function` and `Block`. The main ingredients of an `InvestmentFunction` are
the following:

- The active `ColVariable` of the `InvestmentFunction` represent investments
  that can be made in certain assets. An asset can be one of the following: a
  `ThermalUnitBlock`, an `IntermittentUnitBlock`, a `BatteryUnitBlock`, or a
  transmission line in a `DCNetworkBlock`. The meaning of an investment
  depends on the type of asset it is associated with.

  * Investing an amount x in a `ThermalUnitBlock` means that the unit is
    scaled (see `ThermalUnitBlock::scale()`) by x.

  * For `BatteryUnitBlock` and `IntermittentUnitBlock`, two types of
    investments can be made. Considering an investment of an amount x, the
    unit may either be scaled by x (according to `UnitBlock::scale()`) or
    have its minimum and maximum power and storage levels scaled by x
    using `set_kappa()`.

  * Investing an amount x in a transmission line means that its minimum and
    maximum power flow are scaled by x using `set_kappa()`.

- The value of the InvestmentFunction is given by a fixed investment cost
  (CAPEX) and an [expected] operational cost (OPEX). The fixed investment cost
  is a linear function of the `ColVariable` of the `InvestmentFunction`. The
  [expected] operational cost is given by the solution value of the inner
  `Block` (which depends on the investment being made, i.e., the values of
  the variables of the `InvestmentFunction`.

- The InvestmentFunction has an inner `Block` which contains the assets to
  invest in. This inner `Block` can be either a `UCBlock` or an `SDDPBlock`.
  In the former case the OPEX is deterministic. In the latter case it is the
  expected cost of the sub-`Block` of the `SDDPBlock`, some of which (the ones
  where the investments take place) must themselves be `UCBlock`. Note that the
  same amount of investment in the assets is made for all the stages of the
  `SDDPBlock`.


## Getting started

These instructions will let you build `InvestmentBlock` on your system.

### Requirements

- The [SMS++ core library](https://gitlab.com/smspp/smspp) and its
  requirements.

- [SMS++ SDDPBlock](https://gitlab.com/smspp/sddpblock)

- [SMS++ UCBlock](https://gitlab.com/smspp/ucblock)

### Build and install with CMake

Configure and build the library with:

```sh
mkdir build
cd build
cmake ..
make
```

The library has the same configuration options of
[SMS++](https://gitlab.com/smspp/smspp-project/-/wikis/Customize-the-configuration).

Optionally, install the library in the system with:

```sh
sudo make install
```

### Usage with CMake

After the library is built, you can use it in your CMake project with:

```cmake
find_package(InvestmentBlock)
target_link_libraries(<my_target> SMS++::InvestmentBlock)
```

### Build and install with makefiles

Carefully hand-crafted makefiles have also been developed for those unwilling
to use CMake. Makefiles build the executable in-source (in the same directory
tree where the code is) as opposed to out-of-source (in the copy of the
directory tree constructed in the build/ folder) and therefore it is more
convenient when having to recompile often, such as when developing/debugging
a new module, as opposed to the compile-and-forget usage envisioned by CMake.

Each executable using `InvestmentBlock` has to include a "main makefile" of
the module, which typically is either [makefile-c](makefile-c) including all
necessary libraries comprised the "core SMS++" one, or
[makefile-s](makefile-s) including all necessary libraries but not the "core
SMS++" one (for the common case in which this is used together with other
modules that already include them). One relevant case is the
[InvestmentBlock main in the tools/ repo](https://gitlab.com/smspp/tools/-/blob/develop/investment_solver/investment_solver.cpp?ref_type=heads). The makefiles
in turn recursively include all the required other makefiles, hence one should
only need to edit the "main makefile" for compilation type (C++ compiler and
its options) and it all should be good to go. In case some of the external
libraries are not at their default location, it should only be necessary to
create the `../extlib/makefile-paths` out of the
`extlib/makefile-default-paths-*` for your OS `*` and edit the relevant bits
(commenting out all the rest).

Check the [SMS++ installation wiki](https://gitlab.com/smspp/smspp-project/-/wikis/Customize-the-configuration#location-of-required-libraries)
for further details.


## Getting help

If you need support, you want to submit bugs or propose a new feature, you can
[open a new issue](https://gitlab.com/smspp/investmentblock/-/issues/new).


## Contributing

Please read [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md) for details on our code of
conduct, and the process for submitting merge requests to us.


## Authors

### Current Lead Authors

- **Rafael Durbano Lobato**  
  Dipartimento di Informatica  
  Università di Pisa


## License

This code is provided free of charge under the [GNU Lesser General Public
License version 3.0](https://opensource.org/licenses/lgpl-3.0.html) -
see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.


## Disclaimer

The code is currently provided free of charge under an open-source license.
As such, it is provided "*as is*", without any explicit or implicit warranty
that it will properly behave or it will suit your needs. The Authors of
the code cannot be considered liable, either directly or indirectly, for
any damage or loss that anybody could suffer for having used it. More
details about the non-warranty attached to this code are available in the
license description file.
